# Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree
## Predicting Telstra Network Disruptions
Jeremias Binder  
May 28th, 2017

### Domain Background

Telstra is australias biggest telecommunications and media company with a yearly revenue of over 20 billion USD (A$27.1 billion). 
In a recent [Kaggle competition](https://www.kaggle.com/c/telstra-recruiting-network), Telstra is challenged people to predict the severity of service disruptions on their network. Using a dataset of features from their service logs, the task was to determine whether a disruption is a momentary glitch or a total interruption of connectivity. Knowing in advance which nodes on the network will fail, helps Telstra to shorten the time to fix the issue and eventually improve customer satisfaction.

The competition ended at 2/29/2016, the winner was a user Kaggle user called 'Mario Filho'. Some participants uploaded their kernels on the Kaggle forum, but the winning solution is not available there. In total, 974 teams participated in the competition.  

One of the reasons i choose this project as my capstone project for the Machine Learning Nanodegree at Udacity, is that the company i am currently working at, the sovanta AG in Heidelberg, Germany, has some projects running in the domain of predictive maintenance. 

### Problem Statement
_(approx. 1 paragraph)_

The problem Telstra wants to solve, is to know in advance, when and where in their networks issues will occur. A solution to that would be a model, that takes information and log files generated by the network nodes as an input, and predict the likelihood of failure at a certain point and time. 
Knowing when and where certain nodes in the network will fail, can eventually shorten the time needed to fix the issue and improve the overall customer experience.

The ideal model for Telstra can exactly predict, when and where which type of issue will occur. 
Submissions were evaluated using the multi-class logarithmic loss. Each data row has been labeled with one true class, which represents the severity of the incident (an incident with label '0' means, there is no issue). For each row,  a set of predicted probabilities is submitted (one for every fault severity). The formula is then,

\\[ logloss = - {1\over N} \\sum_{i=1}^{N} {\\sum_{j=1}^{M}}  {y_{ij}  log (p_{ij})},\\]


where N is the number of rows in the test set, M is the number of fault severity classes,  $ log $ is the natural logarithm, $ y_{ij} $ is 1 if observation $i$ belongs to class $j$  and $0$ otherwise, and $p_{ij}$ is the predicted probability that observation $i$ belongs to class $j$.
Or in layman terms: The lower the sum of wrongly predicted severities, the better it is. 


The Telstra team provides the following information to the participants:
1. a training set, which contains information about the location and time of an incident, as well as the severity of it.
2. a bunch of feature files, where one can find more detailed informa

In this section, clearly describe the problem that is to be solved. The problem described should be well defined and should have at least one relevant potential solution. Additionally, describe the problem thoroughly such that it is clear that the problem is quantifiable (the problem can be expressed in mathematical or logical terms) , measurable (the problem can be measured by some metric and clearly observed), and replicable (the problem can be reproduced and occurs more than once).

### Datasets and Inputs
_(approx. 2-3 paragraphs)_

In this section, the dataset(s) and/or input(s) being considered for the project should be thoroughly described, such as how they relate to the problem and why they should be used. Information such as how the dataset or input is (was) obtained, and the characteristics of the dataset or input, should be included with relevant references and citations as necessary It should be clear how the dataset(s) or input(s) will be used in the project and whether their use is appropriate given the context of the problem.

### Solution Statement
_(approx. 1 paragraph)_

In this section, clearly describe a solution to the problem. The solution should be applicable to the project domain and appropriate for the dataset(s) or input(s) given. Additionally, describe the solution thoroughly such that it is clear that the solution is quantifiable (the solution can be expressed in mathematical or logical terms) , measurable (the solution can be measured by some metric and clearly observed), and replicable (the solution can be reproduced and occurs more than once).

### Benchmark Model
_(approximately 1-2 paragraphs)_

In this section, provide the details for a benchmark model or result that relates to the domain, problem statement, and intended solution. Ideally, the benchmark model or result contextualizes existing methods or known information in the domain and problem given, which could then be objectively compared to the solution. Describe how the benchmark model or result is measurable (can be measured by some metric and clearly observed) with thorough detail.

### Evaluation Metrics
_(approx. 1-2 paragraphs)_

In this section, propose at least one evaluation metric that can be used to quantify the performance of both the benchmark model and the solution model. The evaluation metric(s) you propose should be appropriate given the context of the data, the problem statement, and the intended solution. Describe how the evaluation metric(s) are derived and provide an example of their mathematical representations (if applicable). Complex evaluation metrics should be clearly defined and quantifiable (can be expressed in mathematical or logical terms).

### Project Design
_(approx. 1 page)_

In this final section, summarize a theoretical workflow for approaching a solution given the problem. Provide thorough discussion for what strategies you may consider employing, what analysis of the data might be required before being used, or which algorithms will be considered for your implementation. The workflow and discussion that you provide should align with the qualities of the previous sections. Additionally, you are encouraged to include small visualizations, pseudocode, or diagrams to aid in describing the project design, but it is not required. The discussion should clearly outline your intended workflow of the capstone project.

-----------

**Before submitting your proposal, ask yourself. . .**

- Does the proposal you have written follow a well-organized structure similar to that of the project template?
- Is each section (particularly **Solution Statement** and **Project Design**) written in a clear, concise and specific fashion? Are there any ambiguous terms or phrases that need clarification?
- Would the intended audience of your project be able to understand your proposal?
- Have you properly proofread your proposal to assure there are minimal grammatical and spelling mistakes?
- Are all the resources used for this project correctly cited and referenced?
